feat: Add Transaction/Span Development Docs (#25)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/sdk/event-payloads/transaction.mdx

---
title: Transaction Payloads
---

Transactions are used to send tracing events to Sentry.

Transactions must be wrapped in an [Envelope](/sdk/envelopes) and therefore also be sent to the Envelope endpoint.

<Alert title="Note on backwards compatibility" level="info">

> Envelopes are a new format and therefore only work on Sentry >= 10. More infromation can be found on the [Envelope](../envelopes) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envelopes are a new format and therefore only work on Sentry >= 10. More information can be found on the [Envelope](../envelopes) page.
```

</Alert>

## Anatomy

> A Transaction is basically a [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span) combined with an [Event](/sdk/event-payloads/). When using 

Reviewer: Are there fields from `Event` that have no use if set on a `Transaction`?

Author: Kinda, so a transaction should not have a stacktrace/exception/threads but we can take care of this in the next iteration.
Not that it will break it's just not defined what happens.

tracing with our SDKs you usually create a Span tree, the root node and therefore the whole tree is considered to be the Transaction.
So technically a Transaction is just a Span. A Transaction must also have a `contexts.trace` (which contains some data of the [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span)) and some other
properties that will be covered in the next section.

> Transactions is an [Events](/sdk/event-payloads/) which will be enriched with data from the [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions are [Events](/sdk/event-payloads/) that will be enriched with data from the [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span).
```

We are only going to list here whats important for a Transaction.

import "./properties/type.mdx"

import "./properties/start_timestamp.mdx"

import "./properties/timestamp.mdx"

### contexts.trace

> A Transaction has to have a specifc `contexts.trace` entry that contains data from the [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Transaction has to have a specific `contexts.trace` entry that contains data from the [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span).
```

import "./properties/span_id.mdx"

import "./properties/parent_span_id.mdx"

import "./properties/trace_id.mdx"

import "./properties/op.mdx"

import "./properties/description.mdx"

## Examples

```json
{
    "contexts": {
        "trace": {
            "op": "navigation",
            "description": "User clicked on <Link />",
            "trace_id": "743ad8bbfdd84e99bc38b4729e2864de",
            "span_id": "a0cfbde2bdff3adc"

>         }

Reviewer 2: Need to review/align this with code in Relay/SDKs.

---

I looked at an existing transaction sent from the JS SDK and it has an additional `"type": "trace"`.

```json
    "contexts": {
        "trace": {
            "description": "[redacted]",
            "op": "[redacted]",
            "type": "trace",
            "trace_id": "f0eeddd8e915418b953ff969df526b2d",
            "span_id": "96f3b555b5c7ad45"
        }
    },
```

And looked at Relay: https://github.com/getsentry/relay/blob/53a260e6de70d1fec496aaf8c9348f0c5a17e5d8/relay-general/src/protocol/contexts.rs#L360-L383

- Relay ignores the `type` key (we should fix it in the SDK)
- Relay ignores the `description` (goes to `other` field)
- Relay knows of a `status` which is not present here
- Relay knows of a `parent_span_id`, also not here

Transactions must be wrapped in an [Envelope](/sdk/envelopes/) and therefore also be sent to the Envelope endpoint.

<Alert title="Note on backwards compatibility" level="info">

Envelopes are a new format and therefore only work on Sentry >= 10. More information can be found on the [Envelope](/sdk/envelopes/) page.
</Alert>

## Anatomy

A Transaction is basically a [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span) combined with an [Event](/sdk/event-payloads/). When using 
tracing with our SDKs you usually create a Span tree, the root node and therefore the whole tree is considered to be the Transaction.
So technically a Transaction is just a Span. A Transaction must also have a `contexts.trace` (which contains some data of the [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span)) and some other
properties that will be covered in the next section.

Transactions is an [Events](/sdk/event-payloads/) which will be enriched with data from the [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span).
We are only going to list here what is important for a Transaction.

import "./properties/type.mdx"

import "./properties/span_start_timestamp.mdx"

import "./properties/span_timestamp.mdx"

### contexts.trace

> A Transaction has to have a specific `contexts.trace` entry that contains data from the [Span](/sdk/event-payloads/span).

Reviewer 2: I believe this should be documented similar to other `contexts`, specially because we're sending `contexts.trace` also in error events / `captureMessage`.

(I've asked about this on Slack earlier this week after seeing `contexts.trace` in the payload from `captureMessage`)
